Add the documentation of create or update alias API (#7641)
opensearch-project/documentation-website: _api-reference/index-apis/update-alias.md

---
layout: default
title: Create or update alias
parent: Index APIs
nav_order: 5
---

# Create or update alias
**Introduced 1.0**
{: .label .label-purple }

> You can use this API to add a data stream or index to an alias, or update the settings for an existing alias.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The Create or Update Alias API adds a data stream or index to an alias or updates the settings for an existing alias.
```

## Example

```json
POST sample-index/_alias/sample-alias
```

```json
POST sample-index/_alias/sample-alias
{
  "routing":"test"
}
```
{% include copy-curl.html %}

## Path and HTTP methods

```
POST /<target>/_alias/<alias-name>
PUT /<target>/_alias/<alias-name>
POST /_alias/<alias-name>
PUT /_alias/<alias-name>
POST /<target>/_aliases/<alias-name>
PUT /<target>/_aliases/<alias-name>
POST /_aliases/<alias-name>
PUT /_aliases/<alias-name>
POST /<target>/_aliases
PUT /<target>/_aliases
PUT /_alias
```

## Path parameters

| Parameter | Data type | Description |
:--- | :--- | :---

> | target | String | Comma-delimited list of data streams, indexes. Wildcard expressions (`*`) are supported. To target all data streams and indexes in a cluster, use `_all` or `*`. Optional. |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| `target` | String | A comma-delimited list of data streams, indexes. Wildcard expressions (`*`) are supported. To target all data streams and indexes in a cluster, use `_all` or `*`. Optional. |
```

> | alias-name | String | The alias name to be created or updated. Optional. |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| `alias-name` | String | The alias name to be created or updated. Optional. |
```

## Query parameters

All query parameters are optional.

> Parameter | Data Type | Description

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Parameter | Type | Description
```

:--- | :--- | :---

> cluster_manager_timeout | Time | The amount of time to wait for a response from the cluster manager node. Default is `30s`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`cluster_manager_timeout` | Time | The amount of time to wait for a response from the cluster manager node. Default is `30s`.
```

> timeout | Time | The amount of time to wait for a response from the cluster. Default is `30s`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`timeout` | Time | The amount of time to wait for a response from the cluster. Default is `30s`.
```

## Request body

In the request body, you can specify the index name, the alias name, and the settings for the alias. All fields are optional.

> Field | Data Type | Description

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Field | Type | Description
```

:--- | :--- | :--- | :---

> index | String | Comma-delimited list of data streams orindexes you want to associate with the alias. If this field is set, it will override the index name specified in the URL path.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`index` | String | Comma-delimited list of data streams or indexes you want to associate with the alias. If this field is set, it will override the index name specified in the URL path.
```

> alias | String | The name of the alias. If this field is set, it will override the alias name specified in the URL path.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`alias` | String | The name of the alias. If this field is set, it will override the alias name specified in the URL path.
```

> is_write_index | Boolean | Specifies whether the index should be a write index. An alias can only have one write index at a time. If a write request is submitted to a alias that links to multiple indexes, OpenSearch executes the request only on the write index.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`is_write_index` | Boolean | Specifies whether the index should be a write index. An alias can only have one write index at a time. If a write request is submitted to a alias that links to multiple indexes, OpenSearch runs the request only on the write index.
```

> routing | String | Used to assign a custom value to a shard for specific operations. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`routing` | String | Assigns a custom value to a shard for specific operations. 
```

> index_routing | String | Assigns a custom value to a shard only for index operations. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`index_routing` | String | Assigns a custom value to a shard only for index operations. 
```

> search_routing | String | Assigns a custom value to a shard only for search operations. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`search_routing` | String | Assigns a custom value to a shard only for search operations. 
```

> filter | Object | A filter to use with the alias, so the alias points to a filtered part of the index.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`filter` | Object | A filter to use with the alias, so the alias points to a filtered part of the index.
```

---
layout: default

> title: Create or update alias

Reviewer 2: Should this be in title case if it's the name of the API?

parent: Index APIs
nav_order: 5
---

> # Create or update alias

Reviewer 2: Same

**Introduced 1.0**
{: .label .label-purple }

> The Create or update alias API adds a data stream or index to an alias or updates the settings for an existing alias. For more Alias API operations, see [Index aliases]({{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/opensearch/index-alias/).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The Create or Update Alias API adds a data stream or index to an alias or updates the settings for an existing alias. For more alias API operations, see [Index aliases]({{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/opensearch/index-alias/).
```

> The Create of update alias API is distinct from the [Alias API]({{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/opensearch/rest-api/alias/), which supports the adding and removal of aliases and the removal of alias indexes. In contrast, the following API only supports adding or updating an alias without updating the index itself. Each API also uses different request body parameters.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The Create or Update Alias API is distinct from the [Alias API]({{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/opensearch/rest-api/alias/), which supports the addition and removal of aliases and the removal of alias indexes. In contrast, the following API only supports adding or updating an alias without updating the index itself. Each API also uses different request body parameters.
```

> The which supports adding aliases, removing aliases and removing indexes, this API only supports adding or updating an alias, the URL path and request body parameters of these two APIs are also different, so be careful to use them.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The which supports adding aliases, removing aliases, and removing indexes, this API only supports adding or updating an alias. The URL path and request body parameters of these two APIs are also different, so be careful to use them.
```

Reviewer: Removed this, since I reworded in the not below.

> The which supports adding aliases, removing aliases and removing indexes, this API only supports adding or updating an alias, the URL path and request body parameters of these two APIs are also different, so be careful to use them.

Reviewer 2: There's missing content here. Please revise.

{: .note}

## Path and HTTP methods

> ```

Reviewer 2: json?

Reviewer: Not for these. They are meant to be copy and pasted individually depending on what endpoint the user selects.

Reviewer 2: @Naarcha-AWS Based on the [API template](https://github.com/opensearch-project/documentation-website/blob/main/templates/API_TEMPLATE.md), shouldn't this have highlighting, though? @kolchfa-aws Can you verify?

Reviewer 3: Yes, even though the path and HTTP method are not part of JSON, we still have the json formatting tag on these for consistency.

POST /<target>/_alias/<alias-name>
PUT /<target>/_alias/<alias-name>
POST /_alias/<alias-name>
PUT /_alias/<alias-name>
POST /<target>/_aliases/<alias-name>
PUT /<target>/_aliases/<alias-name>
POST /_aliases/<alias-name>
PUT /_aliases/<alias-name>
PUT /<target>/_alias
PUT /<target>/_aliases
PUT /_alias
```

## Path parameters

| Parameter | Type | Description |
:--- | :--- | :---

> | `target` | String | A comma-delimited list of data streams, indexes. Wildcard expressions (`*`) are supported. To target all data streams and indexes in a cluster, use `_all` or `*`. Optional. |

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
| `target` | String | A comma-delimited list of data streams and indexes. Wildcard expressions (`*`) are supported. To target all data streams and indexes in a cluster, use `_all` or `*`. Optional. |
```

| `alias-name` | String | The alias name to be created or updated. Optional. |

## Query parameters

All query parameters are optional.

Parameter | Type | Description
:--- | :--- | :---
`cluster_manager_timeout` | Time | The amount of time to wait for a response from the cluster manager node. Default is `30s`.
`timeout` | Time | The amount of time to wait for a response from the cluster. Default is `30s`.

## Request body

In the request body, you can specify the index name, the alias name, and the settings for the alias. All fields are optional.

Field | Type | Description
:--- | :--- | :--- | :---

> `index` | String | Comma-delimited list of data streams or indexes you want to associate with the alias. If this field is set, it will override the index name specified in the URL path.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
`index` | String | A comma-delimited list of data streams or indexes that you want to associate with the alias. If this field is set, it will override the index name specified in the URL path.
```

`alias` | String | The name of the alias. If this field is set, it will override the alias name specified in the URL path.

> `is_write_index` | Boolean | Specifies whether the index should be a write index. An alias can only have one write index at a time. If a write request is submitted to a alias that links to multiple indexes, OpenSearch runs the request only on the write index.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
`is_write_index` | Boolean | Specifies whether the index should be a write index. An alias can only have one write index at a time. If a write request is submitted to an alias that links to multiple indexes, then OpenSearch runs the request only on the write index.
```

`routing` | String | Assigns a custom value to a shard for specific operations. 
`index_routing` | String | Assigns a custom value to a shard only for index operations. 
`search_routing` | String | Assigns a custom value to a shard only for search operations. 

> `filter` | Object | A filter to use with the alias, so the alias points to a filtered part of the index.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
`filter` | Object | A filter to use with the alias so that the alias points to a filtered part of the index.
```
